Hey, I'm Alan, and I'm here with Brent.
And we're here for episode six of A.B.
Testing as if you couldn't get enough, right?
Absolutely.
We're having a good time.
And Brent, I don't know if you realize this,
but I believe our listener list is approaching double digits.
I was about to say the same thing.
I have gotten all sorts of people, hey,
I'm actively listening.
That's really cool.
It's not going to lull a friend of ours.
Mutual acquaintance this afternoon.
He said, I listened to your podcast.
I said, did you hear the one where I had to bleep Brent out?
He goes, oh, not yet.
So if you're looking for that one, that's episode four.
You know, I listened to that three or four times.
And it wasn't until the fourth time
that I heard the beep, because I think I had kids or something
in the car, and it skipped right over that one.
And then I was about to call you and go,
what the heck was this?
And I'm like, oh, right.
Right, right.
So what you don't see is maybe someday we'll get all high tech
and you can get the video version.
We'll do a vlog.
Instead of vlog, a video blog, you
don't realize how much I taunt Brent just using
the power of my microphones or writing things on my coffee cup.
Yes, things.
So anyway, we're having a good time.
And we're here to talk about a couple of things.
And we have our Kanban list, our Lean Coffee List
on the board.
And the first thing I wanted to talk about
was a little revelation I had.
I've read a lot of books on Agile and flow and value
and things like that.
And I had a conversation with a development manager last week.
And I like him.
I respect him a lot.
He's great.
But he pushes my buttons in a way
that makes me think about things.
And so it's both good and bad in that.
Yeah.
Brent just gave me a look.
I'm like, pushing buttons, but thinking about things.
I had a conversation about trying
to figure out how we're going to track our work, or a better way.
I was suggesting better ways to track our work
within our project tracking system.
Now, I'm going to go ahead and explain the whole thing to you.
I think it's fair to do.
And you can give me how you would do this.
So in Xbox, I ran sort of a virtual team
to do all our infrastructure and tools.
We ended up with about 80 different people
contributing to the tools we use to test and systems
and reporting and things we used
for testing Xbox.
And we had a special node.
And we used TFS for project tracking.
We had a node we called the test development kit,
which kind of included sort of the engineering system
work that we did.
And I suggested we should do that on this new team.
I think it was a great way to track that work.
One, to understand sort of the tacks the team is playing on.
What are you writing that's not product code?
But two, just sort of track that thing.
I like the idea.
Not married to it.
What they really wanted to do was keep the work,
track that work within the node of the team that understood.
So there's four nodes like teams A, B, C, and D.
If someone on team A was doing some build system work,
it would be tracked under team A's, even though it didn't map.
So he's really insistent on mapping the project tracking
hierarchy to his team hierarchy.
So he more than likely wants to map the work being
done by the person who's going to be on the end of his finger.
And we talked about it.
He goes, well, I can't do capacity planning.
There's a nice factory turn frame,
meaning he wanted to figure out with his whole team doing work.
And you want to be able to track that person's work.
And I realized walking away, I said, OK,
get what you're trying to do.
And I'll make this work.
You have to choose your battles over time, right?
And I think you have to choose your battles over time.
I may fight that one again.
But I walked away thinking about.
You're not being agile.
You need to prioritize your battles.
I do.
And it's down the list a little bit.
The one with you is above.
Fair enough.
So I was I walked away.
Specializing generalists.
I walked away reflecting on the conversation,
thinking about, you know, what can I, you know,
I've got to think about this.
You know why?
And what I do, my technique a lot,
is I think, well, what's motivating people
to make these decisions?
And he has a lot of experience and success
in doing things this way.
And I like to prioritize my battles,
but I'm trying to work with him.
But anyway, walking away.
I'm thinking about this.
And I go, you know, the difference is
he is really concerned with tracking activity and people.
And what I really look for in what
I'm using these tools for this is I want to see stuff
getting done.
I care about the work and the value stream.
I want to see stuff start to get ticked off.
That's what excites me.
I care.
And again, I don't manage people.
I lead projects, but I don't manage people.
I can see why he wants to use that as a tool to manage.
Because what he's used to.
He wants to use it.
What goal does it solve?
Look, I'm not arguing for him.
I'm trying to make a decision.
No, no.
I'm asking you, what do you think
the goal is he's trying to solve?
It is his management tool.
It's how he manages his team.
So he mentioned that he wants to be able to do capacity
planning.
So what he's trying to do is create a predictable model.
He's trying to say, I think this will be
get done on September 15.
Absolutely.
He very much believes in predicting the future.
OK.
So he's the crystal ball manager.
Again, there are battles to be fought.
I'll worry about it.
But anyway, regardless of we can talk all about how
I don't like the way he's doing it.
I would never, ever work for him.
But I have to work with him.
So I think, but now I know his motivation.
He's really concerned about tracking people.
And I'm concerned about tracking just stuff getting done
and knowing what that work is in a sort of maintainable,
discoverable way.
Especially for things that span the team.
We don't have a tools team, yet we
have people that need to add build configurations to VSO
or need to write some scripts for migrating a repository
or something.
Those don't fall into any of our functional areas.
But I want to track that work, because that work's important.
I want to make sure we can discover what that is.
Like right now, it's very difficult for me
to go see what is in our system that's
in sort of that engineering systems area.
Or if I wanted to add something,
I need to add a work item for somebody
to make sure that something in the system gets done.
Where do I enter that?
There's no good answer for that now.
So he wants predictability.
You want stuff getting done.
Yes.
So I fall in a different direction.
So when I look at this problem, so Alan's
messing with my microphone.
Because he refuses to speak into it.
But anyway, go on.
So when I look at this problem, I generally
tend towards the flow side of the can.
Reinitz and flow or flow in general?
Reinitz and flow.
But when I mean this, I mean more the can-ban style,
that throughput is more important than predictability.
And that becomes important when you add the thing
that you mentioned at the beginning of this topic.
So if you have throughput plus business value in a way
that you can generate dynamic backlogs,
then predictability becomes dramatically less valuable.
There's only one case where it becomes super valuable.
And that's when there's dependencies in play.
So this guy needs to hit something by June 1st
because he has another team waiting on that.
And they can't begin their work until they
have that dependency in their hands.
Yeah, I agree.
I think we're largely agreement on this.
The key thing is that our approach
to work item tracking, this DevNet Engine
API, are not just different.
And maybe I made it sound like because I'm not
fighting with him that I'm acknowledging his is OK.
It's fundamentally opposed.
The other thing I see that's a problem with his model
is he's trying to predict his capacity
and not trying to improve it, not trying to make capacity
available.
And I can tell you, if you look at Dan Fink's work
about motivation, there's a lot of this in there.
But I am way more motivated by watching items get done,
that value stream occur, than I am
by getting my estimates right.
Alan and I, we did this sort of a psychotyping test a while ago.
Oh, yeah.
Strength finders.
And one of the things that Alan has is he's an achiever,
which is exactly what he keeps saying.
He wants to get stuff done.
Whereas I'm a restorative, which means I want stuff fixed.
I like making broken things non-broken.
So the only other thing I would add to that is great.
You got it done.
But the next follow up is how do we
get this type of work done faster next time?
Yeah.
And that's a big part of what I self-prescribe of what
I do on the team is I want to, using
a term from the lean startup, I
want to increase the efficiency and speed of our build,
measure, learn loop.
So you brought up value stream.
Have you ever heard of the tool called a value stream map?
No.
Tell me about the value stream map.
A value stream map, you can think of it
as a linear diagram where work goes through phases.
And each of the phases are either a work phase
or a wait phase.
So generally, the way these value stream maps are drawn is a,
it's kind of like a, what's the square sign we've called?
Is that a called a square wave?
Square wave.
So it's kind of drawn like a square wave
where the top part of it is time spent working.
And then it goes into delay.
Maybe you're doing a handoff or you're
waiting for someone to get back from vacation
so they can pick it up.
And that's in the valleys.
And then it goes back up to work.
And then what my team does is we do a flow based exercise.
And any time a ticket exceeds our SLA,
no matter what ticket we work on,
once we start it, it has to be completed in two weeks.
If it fails to get completed in two weeks,
we're going to do a value stream map for that ticket.
And we're going to look at what caused the delays in that
system and figure out how to work those delays out
of our process, what we should have done differently
and learned from it.
What this enables us to do is not just
accept that the way stuff works
is the way it's going to continue to work,
but constantly improve it.
One of the fallacies around capacity.
We are moving into a world where we have to move very fast.
And move quickly in the right direction.
Correct.
Which is the business value part of the discussion
that we're having.
That should be what defines the right direction.
Sure.
And we talked about all interruptions
and do a flashback to episode five.
But we talked about the principles
established for our team.
Not the entire team, but for our quality old world test team.
Which are, we value people that achieve.
They get a lot of work done.
That work has business value.
You work with others, but those things are all reflected
in how a big chunk of our team works.
So I'm actually leading a reorg of how we do work
a certain way in our team.
Have you heard of the term fundamentals or NFRs?
This is sort of the.
Oh, non-functional requirements?
Yeah.
So perf, stress, scalability, security, compliance.
So my team has 20 of them.
And the way they've been.
I'll interrupt, because that's what we do here.
How did you decide on 20?
I wasn't part of this process.
Why not 19 or 21?
20 is a good number.
All right.
19 would have been prime.
I would have divide things by five with 20.
Seven's prime.
I would have picked seven.
Yeah.
Zero seems like a good number to me.
Continue, Brett.
All right.
Anyway.
So the way this work's been deployed
is it's sort of a matrix V team model.
Where because there's so many of these fundamentals,
there was a desire to sort of simplify it.
And they all kind of involve deep knowledge
in that space.
Like federal or regulatory compliance,
you can't just say, hey, Dev, read this spec.
You need to have someone who understands and can prioritize
and roll it out.
The challenge is there was a bunch of owners that,
so basically V teams upon V teams upon V teams
in order to make this thing successful.
There was a divisional.
You know how I feel about V teams, right?
Yeah.
Go on.
And your feeling is going to be nothing but validated here.
So long story short, all these V teams pushing requirements
down to the same individual developers who's
trying to get work done and just now has
got requirement overload.
Massive stall in the system.
So one of the things that I am doing is I'm saying, hey,
we're never going to succeed with that because the dependency
matrix and the knowledge sharing that's implied
to make this successful is false.
Like people just do not have the ability
to lightweight pick this up.
And one of the things that they were trying to deploy is,
well, we'll just file tasks and we'll file bugs
and they'll know what to do.
But the person doing the work doesn't have the context
to understand the priority of this in comparison to everything
else that they're doing.
And they don't have the goal.
So it'd be things like, do 10 iterations of fuzzing?
Well, how do I know if that's right or not?
OK, I did 10.
Is it good?
So now you added another delay in the system.
Anyway, I'm working to take these things
and interleave them together.
So what we're going to do is each of these things,
their whole purpose in life is to reduce risk to our service.
So not all categories reduce the same amount of risk
and certainly some category that's a low risk reducer.
Maybe its first requirement is super high.
So what we're going to do is come up
with a way to normalize off of risk reduction to the business
and stack order that whole list.
And then we're going to carve off the top four of them,
make it simple, and say, all right,
everybody in the feature team, we as a whole team
are going to get these four done this next month, quarter,
whatever it is.
We're beginning this.
But what we did is instead of trying
to push multiple timeline requirements
and trying to push multiple requirements in general down
to the poor guys, we said, hey, we
have a definition of business value.
We've ordered this list by that business value.
And now we're going to carve off capacity.
So proactively, everyone will need
to fund what is necessary to get their guys to done
on these things.
And that will be more important than feature development.
Cool.
I think there was a tieback I was going to do back
to value stream method.
That's OK.
But first, I'm going to talk about virtual teams.
I'm sure your virtual teams are fantastic, your V teams.
And I've seen a lot of really poorly run V teams
where they, I'll give you some examples.
The V team contains about 30 people.
And maybe one person is doing work.
Everyone else is kind of listening in and showing up
to meetings and sending email during the meeting.
Wait, let me finish.
Often, or the V team will get something done.
They'll keep meeting and not know what to do.
They'll kind of twiddle their thumbs.
It's stupid.
But good V teams are indeed possible.
And the technique I use, virtual teams, is.
Wait, wait.
You forgot one thing.
OK, tell me.
The other thing in terms of your first example of V teams
that fail, where everyone's doing laptops,
there are a few people who contribute.
And their value at is to tell the one guy who's
doing all the work.
Oh, no, no, we can't do it that way.
So I don't think I ever blogged about this.
I have some notes on it.
But I like the world, what I call it,
the world of Warcraft approach to virtual teams.
And Brent's nodding.
I think I must have told him the story before.
You have.
I think probably one of our listeners
has played World of Warcraft.
And people are addicted to this game.
You get to the end game.
And you go on these big raids or these quests
with random people.
Those are virtual teams.
So some of the rules from World of Warcraft
we want to follow here are you form the team
to accomplish a specific task.
Like go get the chest of bablumba.
Plus two.
And you put a diverse team together
that's capable of accomplishing that task.
So you don't go in there with a bunch of warriors
or all magicians.
You get a diversified team.
So you can actually get the thing done.
Everybody's involved.
Everyone has a role.
When the task is done, the team shares the rewards.
That can be just accolades or whatever.
They share just the accomplishment
of getting it done, whatever.
Share the rewards.
And then they either disband because they're done
or decide to take out another project.
And you play World of Warcraft.
You don't go on a raid that takes three months to finish.
They're short term.
First thing you figure out is what are we going to get done?
Is that feasible in some short amount of time?
And you get that done.
And after that, you decide if you want to take on
the next thing or disband.
Then you're done.
You go away.
It's a small group.
Everyone's involved.
Everyone has a role.
And that form, I think, is a wonderful version
of how to run a V Team.
Not these things where everybody kind of gets together
and hangs on.
And everybody just wants to be informed
and not do any work.
Drives me nuts.
The, I've actually come to learn it as a different thing.
So the word working group is now the thing
that I'm allergic to.
In V Teams, I'm OK with.
Because working groups, by definition, they never end.
And I'm like, no.
So I will not be a part of any working group.
We need a whole new term.
Because often V Team and working group,
at least at Microsoft, are sort of interchanged.
And we need a new term for a group that is, by definition,
short-termed.
So when I run a V Team, it's very similar.
The very first day, I get everyone in the room.
And I said, we're not leaving this room
until we've done two things.
We understand what are the goals that we needed to deliver
in order to abandon this V Team.
So I'm starting off with, we are abandoning this V Team,
but we have stuff we need to do.
And then the second thing is, what are the success metrics
that we will use to determine whether or not
we are in the weeds on track?
Or I guess some in-between state.
All right.
Yeah, I think it's often lost.
V Team is like, let's get together
and talk about code coverage.
And they're like, what do you want to do with it?
I don't know.
Let's just talk about it.
Does somebody want to talk first?
Yes.
Let's cover code.
Great.
Goal done.
Stop the V Team.
No, so one of the things that's very exciting for me right now
is that I'm seeing a sign at our company
that the next important shift in the change
is beginning to occur.
So Alan and I have been spending a lot of time
around helping to lead change.
And it's been primarily around two important states, I guess.
One is, the way I would phrase it
is sort of on-premises thinking and why
we needed a waterfall or a long span,
interactive process moving to more of a service
or an agile model.
And another thing that I know I've blogged about,
I don't know that we talked about it.
Did we ever talk about QoS and QOE here?
I don't think so.
Oh.
QoS and QOE.
These stand for quality of service.
And quality of experience.
Now, what they basically are is the evaluation.
QoS is the evaluation of the system behavior.
So these are things like latency and performance and crashes
and reliability, all of those type of things.
How well does the system work and is it doing the right
thing?
And then QOE is sort of an analysis of customer behavior.
And I know in my last blog, or not my last one,
but a couple of blogs ago, I was talking around how and why
people should help people to migrate from a QoS model.
We're focusing on, well, we've got
to keep the reliability of the service up and running
and begin to shift more towards a QOE world.
And in a nutshell, the reason why I share this
is in a services world, a service that is 100%
reliable that no one uses.
What's your feeling on this?
It's worthless.
Right.
It's absolutely, it's actually worse than worthless.
Yeah, because you invested money in it.
Because you invested money in it.
Right.
And one of the discussions that I
have quite often with leadership in the last several years
is trying to help them understand that.
And what I'm now seeing signs is the company shifting more
towards the reverse.
So people will generally shift from QoS
and then slowly migrate to QOE.
It makes sense in what people were used to
were sort of on premises.
Well, I think that works with sort of the risk model of I
want to make sure my reliability is there.
And then I can roll it out to more people.
And they can, them will worry about their experience.
Right, but the problem with that, the problem with that model.
I know the problem.
It's trying to apply logic.
It's this service equivalent of, but we
got our value proposition right.
So in the on-prem world, some PM three years ago
for the product that we just shipped today,
some PM three years ago, put his finger up in the air
and said, I think the wind's blowing this way.
We went all in on that.
It's the same version.
If you ship a service, you go with QoS first.
You're basically saying the same thing.
We know to be true that the value customers get out
of our product.
Is that it doesn't crash and that's performance.
Right, that's exactly it.
It is notepad.
We put notepad on the web.
Whereas webpad.
So whereas what I'm very excited about
is seeing the beginning of a ground
swell where people realize that the startup mentality,
MVP doesn't mean a beta.
MVP means no.
We are literally shipping the minimum product
that we need to answer this important question.
Are we going in the right direction?
Right.
And if we are, then we'll stabilize that.
Yeah, that's such a, it's so fundamentally logical
that I can't believe that it's taken us as long to figure it
out.
It's this prevailing belief that people
got to hold on to their own world with white knuckles.
I am now aware of several big high level leaders
throughout the company that their response
to sort of their underlings but still senior people in test,
for example, test guys, but what about all the bugs
and but what's happening now is that the discussion is not
happening anymore.
That was what I was, oh, well, let's work it out
and make everyone happy.
No, what's happening now is those leaders are like,
you know what, I don't care.
We're going this way.
Deal with it.
If you don't like it, find another position to which I
applaud.
OK.
All right.
I like that.
Anything else on that?
No, very happy.
Happy, happy, happy, happy.
All right.
We're going to do a little bit of a shorter podcast today
because I have to go to a baseball game.
He gets to go to a baseball game.
It's my kids.
It's the little league playoffs.
Pretty exciting.
But one quick announcement.
I got some big news, Brent.
So we don't have a mail bug today.
So maybe you should do like the mail bag thing for announcement.
Like, announcement.
That one will work.
All right.
Thanks, Brent, for covering that for me.
Yep.
There is an award at Microsoft called the MSAA, Microsoft
Cheebed Award.
And I received one about nine years ago.
And what this award is.
Well, a very belated congratulations.
And so for nine years, I've been,
when am I going to use this?
When you redeem the award?
And I fill out a little paperwork and had my boss and his boss,
our VP, sign it.
And what that does is gives me two months off paid.
Nice.
So combining a little vacation with that.
And that means that from July 1st to Labor Day,
I'm out of here.
So where are we going to be doing the podcast for?
I don't know what to do there.
We'll figure something out.
Maybe tell you what, you record some stuff, send it to me.
I'll record some stuff.
And I'll merge them together and post them
from the south of France.
I will not be doing that because you're very clever with that.
And I want to make it clear what I actually said.
You'll hear Brent say, I am a weird man.
Yeah, I am a pretty girl.
Say the word dresses.
No.
So we'll take you something else.
None.
It's not working in the south of France.
Spending seven weeks in Provence and followed by a week in Japan
visiting some friends of ours there.
And then I don't think by the time I get home,
I will have gone all the way around the world.
Does Skype do recording?
We'll figure it out.
We'll figure something out.
We may take a break for a while.
Sorry.
Or we'll do something.
Yeah.
Oh, you know what else?
Another big enough that's coming up.
World Cup Soccer.
Yeah, when's that start?
June 12.
How do you not know this?
Ah, watch real football.
No.
So my training in soccer is something that I'm nascent in.
And I've been asking Alan, and he knows this for years,
to actually ramp me up on this.
All right, we should have maybe I won't use it by name,
but that soccer conversation sometime.
You probably want to write it for sure.
Yeah, that's a whole full podcast.
We should start my training somewhere around June 12th,
involving a beer or two.
All right, I think discussions have devolved to beer, which
is always a good place to go.
Yep.
They don't serve beer at Little League Games,
but I'll deal with it.
They have water.
Yeah, I'll pretend.
All right, thanks, everybody.
I'm Alan.
I'm Brent.
And we'll see you later.
Bye.
Oh, did I see you?